<head> 
<!--#include virtual="/head.html"--> 
<style type="text/css"> 
.contactsearch { 
visibility:hidden; 
} 
</style> 
</head> 
 

<body> 
<!--#include virtual="/includes/1colUser.inc.html" --> 
 

<!-- ==================== BEGIN YOUR CONTENT HERE ==================== --> 
 <div class="header">
    <a href="/" class="menulink">Home</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="/teaching/" class="menulink">Teaching</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="/outreach/" class="menulink">Outreach</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="/service/" class="menulink">Service</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <!-- <a href="/conferences/" class="menulink">Conferences</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="/contact/" class="menulink">Contact</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;-->
    <a href="/links/" class="menulink">Links</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;
  </div>

<p><i>When you walk into your classroom, the students can tell right away whether you really want to be there, whether you have something interesting to tell them, whether you respect them as people. If they sense instead that you are merely slogging through this dreary duty, just writing the theorems and proofs on the blackboard, refusing to answer questions for lack of time, then they will react to you in a correspondingly lackluster manner." - Steven G. Krantz</i></p>

<p>One of my best friends, Jonathan, was the recipient of several academic awards during his graduation from our alma mater of Lee University, and yet he still found himself unable to finish graduate school. As the isolation during the widespread COVID-19 pandemic began to worsen, I got a message from Jonathan telling me he just didn't know what to do anymore. This message shocked me, as it came from someone whose Facebook feed was full of physics articles and arXiv papers I couldn't even begin to wrap my head around as he butted heads and debated with some of the highest minds in his comment sections. But in his messages it was clear that no one in his graduate department cared if he succeeded or failed. Even as someone who cared more to dissect scientific inquiries than to tend to his emotional state, Jonathan could not get past the feeling that he was not welcome in the community. So he left. It was as simple as that.</p>

<p>As a teacher at this university I want to provide students with the tools for success <i>and</i> care for them along the way. This story tells me that it is our role as instructors to do more than just give information; we must care for them as well. One of my student evaluations reads, "He truly cares about his students that he has, both about the success in this class and about their life in general, outside of this class. ... He got to know us, and that was something irregular of a lecture-style course." Just like how mathematics is the course material for my students, my students are the course material for me. It is my job to study what works for them and I am tested daily on whether my preparations line up with what my students need. A saying I find myself repeating often is, "They don't care what you know until they know that you care," so my first order of business is always to set aside the energy to provide for my students in ways that relate to their coursework.</p>

<p>One way to provide for students in this day and age is to utilize video technology to bolster their learning. At my current university, engineering calculus meets for five hours a week, while the students I teach only need to meet in class for three hours a week. It was no wonder to me that my students were not doing well: I could not give my students the information and examples they needed in the time I had available! As a result I began making Youtube videos for my students to watch after each lecture. Each week I would shoot about two hours' worth of extra examples that my students could watch me work while doing their homework exercises. I would then give a ten-minute iClicker quiz at the beginning of the next class period just to see if my students had watched the videos the night before. The student response was astounding: ``The outside videos were a great resource to have. What I did not understand in class, I understood by watching the videos.... I am not one to excel in math, I struggle to even get a C, but Professor Weeks really offered an abundance of materials that helped me a lot." As someone who has been pioneering this semi-flipped classroom at my graduate program, I think that technology is key to keeping students interested when their attention span for the subject seems to be at an all-time low.</p>

<p>I wish I could keep sharing with you all the other feedback I have received from students - things like "he asked questions to help the learner get to the correct answer, which aided in learning, rather than simply giving the answer," or "I loved his true compassion for teaching this course and being so engaged with each and every one of us. This kind of professor is worth gold," or "I literally have never had a professor or teacher through my entire life that was as welcoming to my questions and was that invested in whether or not I grasped the material," or even as I taught during the pandemic, "he was extremely understanding of the whole pandemic situation and cared about our well being," but there is just not enough space for it all. The truth is, I love teaching, and I am more than thrilled for the opportunity to teach at your institution.</p>


<ol>
  <li> <b>I value innovating with each classroom's unique dynamic in mind over accepting the status quo.</b> While teaching Business Calculus at Texas A&M I found the lack of classroom engagement during lecture disconcerting. Since I am teaching this content for them, if my students find themselves unable to meaningfully interact with the material, am I not derelict in my duties as a professor? In response I created a supplementary video curriculum for the students as a homework aid, using hosting websites like Youtube and Edpuzzle to track student watchtime and giving iClicker quizzes at the beginning of class to gauge knowledge retention. My hope in using technology as a classroom aid was to increase student retention throughout the semester; indeed, even during the COVID-19 pandemic I only had at most 10 of my 65 students from the beginning of the semester drop my courses. But maybe the best consequence of this partial flipping of the classroom is that students were able to learn at their own pace. Well-equipped students were able to prepare for a future topic in the unit, while students who weren't understanding lecture could watch the video curriculum to see the examples again - along with several other examples.</li>
  <li>Even when travelling for research and networking, <b>I have also been continuing my education on how to be a better teacher.</b> I completed a MOOC course on Advancing Learning through Evidence-Based STEM Teaching through the TAMU Center for the Integration of Research, Teaching, and Learning. During our meetings I met with other TAMU graduate students and underwent coordinated discussion on topics like classroom engagement, diverse learning styles, and effectively flipping the classroom. Currently I am working on a project inspired by some lectures by Dr. Dean Hoffman at Auburn University, who would begin every lecture spending two or three minutes writing an extracurricular math problem on the board "for when you inevitably get bored of hearing me talk". I am very interested in this idea of using techniques like this to keep students engaged in mathematical thinking even when lecturing becomes dry to them. I have begun detailing problem guides for my future classes, with topics ranging from using the Mean Value Theorem to find tricky estimations to redefining the logarithm as the integral of 1/x to prove the logarithm rules we have used since high school - even going as broad as to topics like the Euclidean Algorithm, constructible numbers, and the Euler characteristic for higher-level classes.</li>
  <li> <b>The students are at the center of my classroom, and it is my job as an educator to teach my material in a way that is fair and accessible to them.</b> I strive to be the ``golden" teacher my students tell me I am; I want my teaching to accelerate their natural learning processes while also keeping the concepts and solutions in reach for the lowest student who makes an effort to try. Several of my students from teaching and assisting in classes at A&M keep tabs with me even though our main learning areas diverge; we have grown to value each other as people in our time together. I have also made great strides towards making my class affordable by compiling comprehensive notes for each of my lectures for free distribution in my class. The students who cannot afford the exorbitant price of our calculus textbook have found my video curriculum together with these notes to be more than sufficient for their education. Our department has also moved toward using Edfinity for online homework submission, as its price rates for students drop far below any rates we have had with Webassign at about $20 a semester. Bottom line: I want my students to know I care about them.</li>
</ol>
